Create ui-c8y-1022-11-1-refactor-dashboard-to-be-saved-only-on-edit-graft-release-cd.md (#3599)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/device-management/ui-c8y-1022-11-1-refactor-dashboard-to-be-saved-only-on-edit-graft-release-cd.md

---
date: ""

> title: Dashboard is now only saved when edited

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Dashboards are now only saved when edited
```

product_area: Device management & connectivity
change_type:
  - value: change-2c7RdTdXo4
    label: Improvement
component:
  - value: component--KIsStyzM
    label: Device Management app
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-pjJiURv9Y
    label: ui-c8y
ticket: DM-4568
version: 1022.11.1
---

> Dashboards now load in memory on the Info tab and are only persisted to the backend once the user makes changes. This reduces unnecessary API calls and improves performance. No action is required—existing dashboard integration will continue to work as before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To improve performance and reduce unnecessary API calls, dashboards on the **Info** tab in the device details are now only saved when they are edited by the user. This change does not impact the dashboard functionality. 
```

Reviewer: @dafkk Your text is very technical, changed it a bit towards the user perspective.

> Previously, dashboards were saved every time they were loaded, even if no changes were made. To improve performance and reduce unnecessary API calls, dashboards are now only saved when they are actually edited by the user. This change should be transparent to users and not impact the functionality of dashboards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dashboards now load in memory on the Info tab and are only persisted to the backend once the user makes changes. This reduces unnecessary API calls and improves performance. No action is required—existing dashboard integration will continue to work as before.
```
